---
layout: meeting-post
title: "Weekly: Oct. 27, 2025"
tags: [meeting]
---

 - **Date**: Oct. 27, 2025
 - **Time**: 12 pm - 1 pm US Eastern Daylight Time ([View Meeting Time in Your Timezone](https://time.is/1200_27_October_2025_in_ET))
 - **Location**: Virtual Meeting.


## **Upcoming meetings**
 - Next: Monday, Nov. 3, 2025 @ 7 pm - 8 pm US Eastern Daylight Time ([View Meeting Time in Your Timezone](https://time.is/1900_03_November_2025_in_ET))

## Agenda
 - Note: The meeting will be recorded to enable transcription for easy meeting notes.
---
### Proposed Approach

([#19](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/19)) Our goal is to develop a **specification** for the quantum/HPC software stack. To reach this goal efficiently—without limiting healthy discussion—we propose the following approach:

1. **Stage-by-Stage Progress**

   * Start by agreeing on the main *entities* (software layers).
   * Next, define *how they interact*.
   * Then, move into deeper technical discussions.
   * This keeps everyone aligned, creates a common vocabulary and prevents confusion.

2. **Use Concrete Artifacts**

   * Each stage should produce a working example or prototype.
   * These can be based on existing tools (e.g., QRMI/QDMI).
   * Seeing real code helps ground discussions and validate ideas.

3. **Stay Out of the Weeds Early**

   * Avoid getting stuck on detailed questions too soon.
   * Build a shared model first, then dive deeper as needed.
---
 - **Ready-to-Review PRs**:
   - [#19: Procedure: Add community approach and procedures](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/19)
   - [#18: procedures: add new procedures area w/ contrib workflow](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/18)
   - [#14: QCRes: Definition of a Quantum Computing Resource](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/14) (see also: [#16](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/16) )
   - [#15: Formatting and updates on diagram](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/15)


 - **General Discussion**
   - [#16: Proposal: Definitions for Quantum/Classical Resources, Programs, and Workflows](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/pull/16)



## Attendance

|Person                 | Institution           |
|-----------------------|-----------------------|
| Neal Erickson         | Quantinuum            |
| Ermal Rrapaj          | LBNL/NERSC            |
| Peter Gorszkowski     | ORNL                  |
| Jorge                 | LRZ                   |
| Hiroshi Horii         | IBM                   |
| Eric Mansfield        | IQM                   |
| Josh Moles            | IonQ                  |
| Kevin Kissel          | Alice & Bob           |
| Yasuko Eckert         | AMD                   |
| Thomas Naughton       | ORNL                  |
| Coleman Collins       | IonQ                  |
| Patrick Deuley        | IonQ                  |
| Martin Schulz         | TUM                   |


## Notes

### **Meeting Focus**

The session focused on refining **definitions and abstractions** within OpenQSE, especially around key entities like **quantum resources**, **quantum programs**, and how they interact in a hybrid (quantum-classical) computing environment. The team also discussed improving their **GitHub collaboration workflow**.

---

### **Key Discussion Points**

#### 1. **Approach to Progress**

* **Amir Shehata** suggested starting with defining **main entities** (software layers, interactions) before diving into technical details.
* Aim: align on shared vocabulary and develop prototypes using existing components (QRMI, QDMI) to ground the discussion.
* Plan to form **working groups** later to tackle specific technical areas.

#### 2. **Level of Detail in Definitions**

* **Kevin K** cautioned against both excessive abstraction and unnecessary detail. He emphasized clear, crisp definitions that can evolve as needed.
* Consensus: stay high-level for now, iterating gradually instead of resolving all technical specifics immediately.

#### 3. **Defining “Quantum Resource” and “Coherent/Quantum Program”**

* Debate on whether “**coherent program**” is the right term—**Coleman Collins**, **Kevin K**, and others preferred **“quantum program”** for clarity.
* Concerns:

  * The definition was **recursive** (quantum program ↔ quantum resource).
  * Should the output be strictly “qubit output,” or allow broader results (post-processing, distributions, etc.)?
* **Neal Erickson** and **Coleman** proposed thinking of quantum programs like **classical programs**—potentially including control flow, not just circuits.
* **Kevin** suggested using metaphors like **“quantum basic block”** (a unit of quantum execution) to make the model intuitive for classical computing experts.

#### 4. **Quantum Resource vs. Classical Resource**

* **Jorge**, **Martin Schulz**, and others raised issues with defining a “quantum resource” too narrowly:

  * How to represent **stacks-as-devices** (e.g., remote or interconnected systems)?
  * The term *resource* was considered **too broad or ambiguous**; alternatives like “quantum device” were suggested.
  * Need to include **quantum memory** and **stateful operations**, not just functional input/output.
  * The **hybrid computation model** must consider dynamic allocation and classical-quantum interaction beyond pre/post-processing.

* **Amir** clarified that “resource” originates from **resource management**, describing something users allocate and release (as in QDMI/QRMI).

* **Kevin** related this to **Slurm scheduling**, where nodes are tagged with features like “quantum” to describe capabilities. **Martin** countered that hybrid systems might need **co-scheduling** or dynamic resource allocation.

#### 5. **Toward a General, Flexible Model**

* Agreement that the model should be **modular and future-proof**, supporting:

  * Different scheduling models.
  * Mixed or dynamic hybrid jobs.
  * Both HPC-like and cloud-like workflows.
* **Martin** and **Kevin** agreed on balancing current HPC paradigms with flexibility for emerging hybrid paradigms.

---

### **GitHub Collaboration Walkthrough**

* **Patrick Deuley** demonstrated how to:

  * Use **pull requests (PRs)** for collaboration.
  * Comment and suggest line edits.
  * Use **“suggest changes”** and **multi-line comments**.
  * Edit and preview **Mermaid diagrams** directly within GitHub.
* **Coleman** and **Neal** added that Markdown-based diagrams can be reviewed via the “rich diff” view.
* Team agreed to use PRs for **collective editing** rather than isolated contributions.

---

### **Next Steps**

* **Next meeting**: review the **sequence diagram** to better visualize interactions between components.
* Continue iterating on the **quantum resource** and **quantum program** definitions.
* Encourage contributions via PRs and GitHub comments.

---

### **Key Takeaways**

* Consensus to rename “coherent program” → **“quantum program.”**
* “Quantum resource” needs clearer boundaries—possibly split into **device**, **memory**, and **software stack** concepts.
* Model should remain **flexible**, **non-recursive**, and **implementation-neutral.**
* Practical GitHub workflows now established for collaborative editing.

---

### **Key Decisions**

| Topic                   | Decision / Direction                                         |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| “Coherent Program” term | Renamed to **Quantum Program**                               |
| Quantum Resource scope  | Needs redefinition—potentially renamed to **Quantum Device** |
| Modeling philosophy     | Start simple, evolve iteratively                             |
| Workflow                | Use GitHub PRs as single source of truth                     |
| Next meeting focus      | Review sequence diagram & refine definitions                 |


## Files
* [Download Transcript](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/openQSE/openqse-admin/2025/Meeting-2025-10-27-transcript.docx)

