---
layout: meeting-post
title: "Weekly: Oct. 06, 2025"
tags: [meeting]
---

## Meeting - October 06, 2025

 - **Date**: Oct. 06, 2025
 - **Time**: 7 pm - 8 pm US Eastern Daylight Time ([View Meeting Time in Your Timezone](https://time.is/1900_06_October_2025_in_ET))
 - **Location**: Virtual Meeting.


## **Upcoming meetings**
 - Next: Monday, Oct. 13, 2025 @ 12 pm ET - 1 pm US Eastern Daylight Time ([View Meeting Time in Your Timezone](https://time.is/1200_13_October_2025_in_ET))

## Agenda
 - Go over the sequence diagrams included in the commit referenced by [Issue #5](https://github.com/openQSE/openqse-spec/issues/5)


## Attendance

|Person                 | Institution           |
|-----------------------|-----------------------|
| Ashlyn Burch Grinevich| ORNL                  |
| Patrick Deuley        | IonQ                  |
| Vicente Ortega        | ORNL                  |
| Miwako Tsuji          | RIKAN                 |
| Catalina Albornoz     | Xanadu                |
| Kevin Kissel          | Alice & Bob           |
| Heidi Nelson-Quillin  | IonQ                  |
| Ermal Rrapaj          | LBNL/Nersc            |
| Andreas Sawadsky      | Quantum Brilliance    |
| Laura Schulz          | ANL                   |
| Elaine Wong           | ORNL                  |
| Amir Shehata          | ORNL                  |

## Notes
- In depth discussion of 
  - The possible Quantum/HPC workflows
  - The roles and responsibilities of classical compute in the workflows
  - The relationship between classical compute and quantum compute 
    - Catalina proposed being specific about what is pre- and post-processing steps vs the execution itself
    - How different architectures/use cases/applications/customers may have different workload designs which may have very different inner/outer loops
    - Patrick cited his team identifying six distinct _"styles"_ of hybrid programs, listed in Slack for further discussion
       - From slack:
***
“Hybrid is a theme not a feature” and can occur at multiple layers, and if we’re planning for 2030, there’s a lot we might see by then:
-  Dynamic circuits define execute classical logic directly in the IR and process it in the coherence window itself
-  [This paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.18527) proposes low-latency, external classical co-processors working via socket with the control software (!!)
-  Securely deployed function containers may be operating directly on the system head for minimal latency
-  Classical co-processing may be happening on an HPC system locally for “tightly coupled” workloads, or remotely for “loosely coupled” workloads
-  Co-processors may be running on containers colocated with the QPU, in some cases as a black box service
-  Co-processors may be running on a hosted cloud service provided as SaaS
***

- **Preliminary agreement on the term "Quantum Resource"**
  - Quantum Resource includes the QPU and classical resources
  - Classical compute in the Quantum Resource performs computation in support of quantum operations (e.g., error correction)
    - General consensus that while classical capacity in a "quantum resource" _may_ be capable of more, it's better to scope this to only the classical processing power required for the execution itself and not additional pre/post processing.
  - Classical only nodes should be described separately (even if they are functionally the same system) for architectural uniformity
- **Questions/topics for future consideration**
  - How do we estimate needed resources for hybrid workloads? Where do lines get drawn?
  - How do we think NISQ-era and post-NISQ workloads will change and differ in processing needs? Is it worth describing them separately?
  - What are the major ways in which different architectures approach these workload problems differently?
  - Are there some common workload designs we can agree on as references to backtest against?
  - Tierkreis (Quantinuum) was used as a reference for this sequence diagram—what are some other systems/frameworks we could evaluate as prior art in this space?

## Todos
- Open invitation for participants to create more sequence diagrams to express the workflows they have in mind


