---
layout: meeting-post
title: "Repository and Wiki Discussion"
tags: [meeting]
---

# Repository and Wiki Discussion


 - **Date**: September 12, 2025
 - **Time**: 1 pm - 2pm US Eastern Daylight Time
 - **Location**: Virtual Meeting.

## **Upcoming meetings**
 - Next: Monday, Sep. 15, 2025 @ 12pm ET - 1pm ET [View Meeting Time in Your Timezone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250915T12&p1=179)

## Agenda
 - Rough layout on repos/naming to avoid ambiguity
 - Put meeting notes in wiki
 - Use doc tool (e.g., ReadTheDocs/sphinx) for the openQSE spec (currently comprised of glossary text files)
 - openqse.org webpage


## Attendance

|Person                 | Institution           |
|-----------------------|-----------------------|
| Patrick Deuley        | IonQ                  |
| Josh Moles            | IonQ                  |
| Amir Shehata          | ORNL                  |
| Thomas Naughton       | ORNL                  |

## Notes
-

## Todos
- Action one

## Prior todos
